## Machine Learning Methods

# 4. Methodology

# 4.1 Explanation of the Problem: 
Our Kaggle Project was focused on Binary classification. Binary Classification is the task of classifying the elements of a set into two groups on the basis of a classification rule. Our problem revolved around classifying the structural damage detected in a structure. We had to choose different machine learning algorithms to help classify the data. 

# 4.2 Steps For each algorithm:
First we had to create a model, softmax or sigmoid used in output layer, so that we could train the model and tune hyperparameters, such as accuracy, precision etc. Finally, we had to test the performance of model against the sample data. This allowed us to compare results from different models and see  what model was the most accurate at classifying the data. 

# 4.3 Data Preparation
First we had to split the train dataset into 2, one set for training and the other for validation. Then we had to shuffle the train dataset before using it. We then used regularizations to apply penalties on layer parameters or layer activity during optimization. Dropouts were used to incorporate non-linearity. 
The data was normalized by subtracting the mean and dividing by standard deviation.

# 4.4 Method 1: Logistic Regression
The first Method utilized was Logistic Regression. It was the simplest model for binary classification. The method outputs a probability between 0 and 1, exclusivly. It then defines a decision threshold to map to binary category. 

content/Screen Shot 2020-12-03 at 10.15.21 PM.png


